This README briefly explains the format of the Comma Resolution corpus
created by the Cognitive Computation Group and described in the paper,
"Extraction of Entailed Semantic Relations Through Syntax-Based
Comma Resolution", Srikumar V., Reichart $., Sammons M., Rappoport A., 
and Roth D., ACL 2008.

Each example is delimited by a row of '%' symbols.  The description of
each example contains, in the following order:

-- An Identifier "secAA.BBB", where AA indicates the section of the 
   Penn Treebank/Wall Street Journal the example comes from, and BBB
   indicates the sentence index, starting at 1. 

-- An ANNOTATION section, containing the sentence with all comma structures
   marked with unique integer identifiers in square brackets.  Comma 
   structures such as lists and appositions may contain more than one comma, 
   and so all commas in a single such structure are given the same unique 
   integer identifier.  Note also that individual commas may serve more
   than one function, e.g. delimit an appositive structure AND mark a 
   clause boundary, in which case they are labeled with more than one
   unique integer identifier.

-- A COMMAS section, indicating the number of comma structures labeled in
   the sentence, and a description of each structure.  Each structure
   description comprises its integer identifier from the annotated 
   sentence, its TYPE, the number of implied RELATIONS, a comment entry, 
   and a list of the RELATIONS in sentence form, one per line.
   RELATIONS contain square brackets marking chunk boundaries, as specified 
   in the annotation guidelines included with this distribution. 
   The comment entry, which is bounded by parentheses, includes comments
   made by the annotators about specific examples.

Comma structure types are described in the accompanying annotation 
guidelines. 

If you have questions after reading through the annotation guidelines
or looking through the examples, please contact me at mssammon@uiuc.edu.

Mark Sammons, 4/2/08
